---
layout: post
---

We have been working on finding a new solution to the deprecated ocr that is meant to read the license plates. This has now been worked on for a couple of weeks and not much progress have been done. The deprecation is because the api level of the application needs to be 33 while the current ocr library supports api level 28. To solve this it has been attempted to find a new ocr library that supports api level 33. This has been done by looking at different ocr libraries and testing them to see if they work. Eventually all available libraries that are local and free have been tested and none of them have worked due to their targetSdk being to low. 

The next step is to look at premium libraries that support local implementation of the ocr. This is however a step that need to be taken in collaboration with the owner. This is because the owner needs to be the one to pay for the premium library. The owner has been contacted and the next step is to wait for a response from the owner.

The solution which we think will work the best is to use a premium library which will be easy to implement and will not require a lot of work to keep updated. The free packages have a tendency to become deprecated due to them being community driven. Letting a premium library handle the ocr will make sure that the ocr will be maintained. The cost of this seems to be around 150-200$ at the time of writing this. This is a cost that we think will be easier to pay when the application has a wider release and then merits the implementation.

We will now put this work on hold due to the ocr not being a mandatory part of the project. This will allow Magnus to help with other parts of the project that is more important currently. This will also allow Elliot to have a singular focus on his part of the project.